1. Git version
	git --version
	
2. Register user with git
	git config --global user.name "your-git-user-name"
	git config --global user.email "your-git-email"

3. See config list
	git config --list
	
4. Creates a local repository
	git init
	
5. Make copy of remote repo on local machine

	git clone <remote-repo-clone-link>
	
6. Forking : This creates a copy of the repository of other user( example : public repo or other user repo) in your account 

7. Adding file to staging area
	git add file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt
	git add . (To add all files)
	
8. Show the state of changes in your working directory and staging area
	git status
	
9. Save changes to repository
	git commit -m "Your commit message here"
	
	
10. Show you the differences in the repository that haven't been staged (i.e., changes you've made but haven't yet run git add on) | code of your working space that has not been staged yet
	git diff
	
11. To see what differences have been staged but not yet committed (i.e., changes that are ready to be committed on the next git commit)
	git diff --cached
	git diff --staged

12. Differences Between Commits: You can compare two specific commits by referencing their commit hashes:
	git diff commit_hash1 commit_hash2

13. Differences Between Branches: Similarly, you can compare branches:
	git diff branch1..branch2

14. Differences in a Specific File: If you're only interested in the changes made to a particular file, you can specify the file name:
	git diff path/to/file.txt

15. Shows the differences between your working directory and the latest commit (HEAD)
	git diff HEAD
	
16. Displays information about a specific object, usually a commit. By default, if executed without any object specified, it will show details about the most recent commit (HEAD)
	git show
	
17. Specific Commit: You can use git show followed by a specific commit hash to display information about that particular commit
	git show <specific-commit>
	
18. Display a log of commits for the branch you're currently on.
	git log
	
19. Limiting Output: If you only want to see a specific number of latest commits, you can use a number as an argument
	git log -5 => will show the last five commits.
	
20. Graph View: The command git log --graph shows a textual graph of commits and branches, which is especially useful for visualizing branch and merge history
	git log --graph
	
21. To remove a file from your working directory and also stage the removal
	git rm filename.txt

22. Removing from the Staging Area Only: If you want to remove a file from the Git repository but keep it in your working directory (i.e., no longer track the file but also don't delete it),
	git rm --cached filename.txt

23. Removing Directories: To recursively remove files in a directory (and the directory itself):
	git rm -r directoryname/

24. Forcing Removal: If you've made changes to a file and haven't committed those changes, Git will prevent accidental removal of that file. If you're sure about the removal, you can force it with:
	git rm -f filename.txt

25. Show current branch
	git branch
	
26. Creating a Branch: You can create a new branch using below command. This creates the branch but does not switch to it and contains all code of current branch. 
	git branch branch_name
	
27. Deleting a Branch:
	a. To delete a branch locally, use git branch -d branch_name. This will safely delete the branch (i.e., only if its changes are already present in the current or other branches).
		branch -d branch_name
		
	b. If you want to force delete a branch, regardless of its state, use git branch -D branch_name
		git branch -D branch_name
		
28. Renaming a Branch:
	a. To rename the current branch, use git branch -m new_branch_name.
		git branch -m new_branch_name
	
	b. To rename a branch that you are not currently on, use git branch -m old_branch_name new_branch_name.
		git branch -m old_branch_name new_branch_name
		
29. List all branch
	git branch --list

30. Switching Between Branches: You can switch to an existing branch using the command: git checkout branch_name. When executed, it changes the HEAD to point to the specified branch and updates the working 	directory to match the content of that branch.
	git checkout branch_name
	
31. Creating a New Branch and Switching to It:You can create a new branch and immediately switch to it by using the -b flag.
	git checkout -b new_branch_name
	
32. Detached HEAD State: You can also checkout a specific commit by using its commit hash: git checkout commit_hash. When you do this, you're not on a named branch anymore, but instead on a specific commit. This state is called a "detached HEAD" state. It's useful for exploring the repository's state at a particular point in history, but you should be cautious when making changes in this state. If you do make changes, it's a good idea to create a new branch to save those changes.
	git checkout commit_hash
	
	raj
	
		

	


